---
layout: post
title:  "Nudism"
date:   2011-08-05 08:00:00
categories: technology
---

I promised this entry a while back to [Michael](http://mistypedurl.com), but I’m just now remembering to write the story. My apologies.

A few months into our marriage we decided to move from our tiny apartment in the basement of someone’s home to a rental house closer to school. Part of the reason for moving was a very annoying habit of bug infestations, including, but not limited to, caterpillars, black widow spiders, and a scorpion. Yes, a 2 inch-long scorpion in Chattanooga, TN. That was the proverbial straw that broke the camel’s back, and I came home that evening and told Andrew we needed to move. 2 weeks later we were in the new house.


That winter we were faced with yet another infestation of bugs. This time in our bedroom. We had flies buzzing around the room, driving everyone crazy. Our cat, Pixel, was especially entertained by the flies and would spend most of the night jumping around on the bed trying to catch them.

We were getting ready for bed one evening, and by getting ready for bed I mean taking our clothes off. Just to qualify this story ??? I sleep naked. Ok. Moving on. Andrew’s already hopped into bed at this point and I was getting ready to get under the covers when the flies began buzzing around the window closest to my side of the bed. I decided to pursue ending their lives with swift and merciless vengeance. One buzzed in front of me at chest height and I smacked it, stunning it. It was still flying, but definitely with less agility and purpose. I then snatched it up in one hand caught, one-handed, in mid-air. I looked over at Andrew and proudly exclaimed “I just caught a fly!!!! I went President Obama on his ass!!!” Andrew chuckled and started to say something, but at this time I noticed another fly. Before Andrew could finish his sentence I had caught the other fly in my free hand.

There I was. Butt-naked, with a buzzing fly in each hand. The first thought that popped into my mind at that very moment was “There was nothing in my life that prepared me to handle this situation.” I looked over at Andrew and said “There’s nothing in my life that’s prepared me to handle this situation!” He laughed, but then realized I was serious. I began thinking of solutions: I could smack my hands together. I could have dead fly guts all over my hands, but the more likely outcome would be to lose the flies upon opening my hands for final impact. Andrew suggested I go outside and release them. I had 2 issues with this solution: I was naked and not going outside, and I was not about to release those flies back into the wild. The only other thing I thought of was to drown the flies. Quick, painless, and also a good way to clean my hands while eradicating the flies.

Andrew opened the door for me and went down into the living room while I proceeded to the bathroom. I couldn’t use my hands to turn any knobs, so, logically, I stuck a hand in the toilet and waited until the bugger twitched no more to let him go. Instead of pursuing another way to drown the other fly, I stuck my left hand in the toilet as well and that fly met the same end as his companion.

Meanwhile Andrew comes back upstairs and walks by the bathroom and stops. There I am, naked, squatting over the toilet with both hands in drowning flies.

I don’t know why it didn’t occur to me to clean the fly-free hand off after drowning the first fly. I don’t know why I didn’t think to ask Andrew to turn on the sink for me instead of sticking my hand in a toilet.

Like I said, no lecture or life-lesson had prepared me to deal with a fly in each hand while butt naked at 1 in the morning. Now I’m prepared.